---
title: Why?
excerpt: Why does this site exist?
categories:
- Interpretation
# feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
---

**Why?**

It's such a simple question, but how often do we stop to ask it?

There is one fundamental idea that all of Evangelical Christianity is built upon. We might claim that this fundamental idea is Jesus and his resurrection, or perhaps the gospel, but if you stop to think about it, we base our understanding of *those* things on something even more fundamental. What is the one thing that undergirds everything a Christian believes?

**The Bible**

The Bible! For most Evangelicals, it is the ultimate and *only* source of objective truth. If somebody disagrees with the Bible, then that somebody is wrong. If some understanding of our world contradicts the Bible, then that understanding is wrong. If somebody finds an error in the Bible, they simply don't understand the Bible well enough to see how they are the one in error.

**Everything** in the Evangelical Christian understanding is built upon this idea that the Bible in its entirety is breathed from the mouth of God such that every word is true and trustworthy.

but............<br/>
**Why?**

Why do we believe the Bible is inerrant? So often people will speak of biblical authority--"I believe x, y, and z because the Bible tells me it's correct" or "I act in such a way because the Bible says this is how to act."--but how did the Bible get its authority? The bible makes a few claims about scripture, but how do we know which books are scripture? How do we know that scripture refers to the 66 books that are actually in our Bible? Why not 65 or 67? Why not 73 or 39? Are we to believe also that the people who put the Bible together are also inerrant? Are the Catholic counsels that created the Bible inerrant? If not, are we to believe that the inerrant word came from these errant meetings--from errant people? Why??? If we're going to believe what the Bible says about itself, isn't that just circular reasoning?

If you're honest with yourself, you probably didn't come to believe the Bible is inerrant because the Bible said so. You came to believe that the Bible is inerrant for some other reason, and then used the Bible as "proof" once you already had the belief. What is your *actual* reason for believing the Bible? Because somebody told you that you have to believe it in order to be a Christian? Because it feels true? Because it provides you with a source of truth for you life?

That's all fine and dandy, but if we're to base our beliefs on the "objective truth" of the Bible, shouldn't we be sure it's objectively true? What if the honest truth is that there is no good reason to believe in inerrancy? Will you still believe it? What if there are a number of good reasons **not** to believe in inerrancy? What if there are errors and contradictions in the Bible? What if we find evil in the Bible? What if exalting the Bible to this place of inerrancy is actually a form of idolatry? What if God never intended us to read the Bible this way?

My hope is that by exploring these questions, we can get a better sense of how to read and interpret the Bible.
