---
title: Slavery
excerpt: "It's actually showing God's kindness"
categories:
- Evil
---
I don't think that it comes as a big surprise to anybody that slavery appears in the Bible. The surprising part comes when seeing how inerrantists defend how it's portrayed in the Bible. Search the internet for an inerrantist response to slavery, and you'll find authors waxing poetically about how such slavery was so much better than the chattel slavery from America's Antebellum period. On this point, they're largely correct. While it's harder to know the exact practices of people that lived thousands of years ago, most evidence points to the slavery in ancient Israel being of a less severe variety than was practiced in the states.

But why does that matter? If somebody sets a flaming bag of poo on your doorstep, are you going to sit and smell the poo and be thankful that they didn't give you the smelliest poo possible? Slavery in ALL forms is a burning pile of poo. It doesn't matter that it is not as bad as Antebellum slavery. It is still an abomination and morally repugnant.

>
But the Bible doesn't actually defend slavery. It simply describes a practice of servants paying off debts.

I've heard this argument multiple times by multiple different sources, and I can't for the life of me understand how somebody can say this. Either they haven't actually read the relevant passages, or they're just straight up lying.

There was clearly a slave trade
>
However, you may purchase male or female slaves from among the foreigners who live among you. You may also purchase the children of such resident foreigners, including those who have been born in your land. You may treat them as your property, passing them on to your children as a permanent inheritance. (Leviticus 25:44-46)

Sexual slavery was a thing
>
When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she will not be freed at the end of six years as the men are. If she does not please the man who bought her, he may allow her to be bought back again. (Exodus 21:7-8)

Slaves were beaten
>
When a man strikes his male or female slave with a rod so hard that the slave dies under his hand, he shall be punished. If, however, the slave survives for a day or two, he is not to be punished, since the slave is his own property. (Exodus 21:20-21)

See that? **the slave is his own property.** Slaves were passed down through generations. This isn't some kind of voluntary servanthood to pay off debts. It's real-life abominable slavery. It's **evil**.

> But guys!!! Owners weren't allowed to beat their slaves **to death**, so this is actually an example of God's kindness!!!

🙄. I wish this were an exaggeration, but it's a serious argument I have seen multiple times.

Given this information, I only see three possible conclusions:
1. God (at best) tacitly allowed evil and gave Israelites rules on how to conduct their evil
2. Slavery isn't evil
3. The Bible is wrong about God condoning slavery

Can you think of another possibility? I can't. Given these three possibilities, which do you think is the correct answer?

If you choose #1 (an evil God), then we have a million more problems to address. Doesn't that contradict all of the other verses in the Bible talking about holiness, righteousness, justice, etc? Wouldn't this imply that none of that actually matters? If God is ok with evil, then why not be evil? If *you're* not ok with evil, but you think God is, then why are you a Christian in the first place? Why are you worshipping this God that furthers evil? For any reasonable Christian, #1 isn't really an option...

If you choose #2 (slavery isn't evil), then...I'm kind of at a loss of words. If you honestly choose #2, then you're really just not a good person and deserve to be an outcast from good society. If the systemic subjugation, beating, and raping of other human beings isn't evil, then I don't know what is. Can you reasonably call *anything* evil at that point, if not slavery? For any reasonable human, #2 isn't really an option...

That leaves us with #3. The Bible is wrong. I know this is an uncomfortable truth for many Christians, but it is truth nonetheless. The Bible isn't some God-created rule book that perfectly reflects God. It's the recording of a people's journey with God and how they perceived God. For the Christian, it contains many truths and a revelation of who God is. Unfortunately, it also contains misunderstandings of who God is and what he wanted. Let's be honest about these misunderstandings and take the Bible for what it is, not what we want it to be.
